 An Analysis on Social Customer Relationship Management in Health Sector: Examining Hospitals in United Kingdom

The development of information and communication technology (ICT) has created new avenues for businesses to take advantage of the cutting-edge methods of boosting customer happiness, customer loyalty, sales growth, and increased profitability. The healthcare sector is falling behind in adopting this cutting-edge approach, transforming institutional care into citizen-centred care with a focus on the continuum of care from prevention through rehabilitation. The global use of customer relationship management strategies has been encouraged by the internet, particularly social media. However, despite claiming to use the social CRM strategy, several business organisations are not fully utilising the possibilities of these systems. Evidence from the academic literature suggests that the implementation of this approach by healthcare organisations has not progressed effectively. Customers (patients) are continually evolving quicker than the care provided by many healthcare organisations, necessitating the need of a comprehensive system like social CRM to manage patients and families. This study looked at the top hospital in the UK to analyse how social CRM methods have been used in the healthcare industry. To get first-hand knowledge of the problem from both the customer and company perspectives, the qualitative methodology was used in this research. In the study, three renowned hospitals were investigated. Customer feedback was extracted from the NHS website, Google review, and Twitter to analyse customers' relationships with each hospital. Corresponding to the study's findings, the top three hospitals are embracing a customer-centric business model, utilising social CRM methods, as well as developing positive relationships with their customers and engaging in value co-creation. Customers, on the other hand, were discovered to place a high value on social media marketing's effectiveness in promoting the delivery of services that are focused on the needs of the customer and, as a result, influencing consumer brand resonance. The research provides the implications of the findings and recommendations.

The aim of this study is to critically examine social customer relationship management in healthcare organisations using hospitals in the United Kingdom as a case study, so that health organisations can better understand their customers' needs and provide better services to increase the value of their companies. Furthermore, to achieve the study's goal, a set of clear, realistic, and time-bound objectives will be achieved.
1. Examine literature on customer relationship management in the healthcare industry 
and other pertinent subjects critically.
2. Make use of visualisation tools to analyse data from social media sites.
3. Gain business insight and make suggestions for better customer service.
4. Identify and evaluate the research's potential limitations.
5. Compare the research results to those of related studies.
6. Offer suggestions for the project's ongoing research.
